Social Engineering in Action
We define social engineering as the art of manipulating, influencing,
and deceiving people for nefarious purposes.
For example, during the height of the coronavirus pandemic,
social engineers used a variety of well-crafted scams
to convince people to divulge personal information
or click on malicious links.
One particularly effective email campaign
involved the attackers masquerading as the World Health Organization,
claiming to have highly important information regarding COVID-19.
As you can probably guess, thousands of people clicked.
Remember though: social engineers don’t limit their attacks to phishing.
Their main objective is always to take advantage
of the human tendency to trust specific people,
and this can happen in many other places outside of email.
Imagine getting a phone call from someone in our IT department
claiming that our organization is running vital security updates.
They instruct you to go to a specific website and download something.
Would you do it?
If you answered yes,
how likely is it that you would infect your machine with malware?
In short, social engineers hack people
by leveraging human emotions.
Never give confidential information to anyone
over the phone, through email,
on social media, or via text message
unless you can verify that they are legitimate and trustworthy.
Follow your instincts, use common sense, and always think before you click.
Key Takeaways
Social engineering is the art of
manipulating people, not computers.
These attacks utilize a variety of mediums including
email, text messages, and phone calls.
Never reveal confidential information unless
you can confirm the recipient is legitimate.